Boolean that is for True and false statements

Synthax error that bascially deals with grammer (doesn't have right grammer or Synthax )

IDE - Integrated Develpoment Environment: A code editior with features like autocompletion, debugging 
editior - Vscode

Built#-in functions
shift ctrl m

Running python code
1. Use Python3 plus file name
you the run button


Expression is a piece of code that produces a value
linter code checks for potential errors mostly in synthax error

variables store data in the computers memory
example;
x = 100 so x is the variable storing 100


variables must be meaningfful
lower case to name variables
underscores to separate multiple names
space out between equal signs



1. Comparison Operators

These are used to compare values: =, ==, >, <, etc.

2. Conditional Statements (If Statements)

You can control the flow of your code using if, elif, and else statements based on conditions.

Example: If temperature is greater than 30, it's warm; if less than 20, it's nice; otherwise, it's cold.

3. Ternary Operator

A shorthand for simple if-else statements.

Example: message = "Eligible" if age >= 18 else "Not Eligible"

4. Logical Operators

and, or, and not are used to combine or negate conditions.

Short-circuiting: If a condition fails early (with and), the rest won’t be evaluated.

5. Chaining Comparison Operators

You can chain comparisons like 18 <= age < 65 to check if a value falls within a range.

6. For Loops

Used for repetition, looping over a sequence or range.

Example: for number in range(1, 10, 3) will iterate with steps of 3.

For-Else: If the loop completes without break, the else block will execute.

7. Nested Loops

A loop inside another loop. The inner loop runs completely for each iteration of the outer loop.

8. While Loops

A loop that runs as long as a condition is true. You can also create an infinite loop with while True.

9. Iterable Objects

Lists, ranges, and other sequences are iterable, meaning they can be looped over using for.

10. Functions

Functions help structure code into reusable blocks.

You can pass arguments to functions, and they can either perform tasks or return values.

Example: def greet(name): print(f"Hi {name}")

11. Arguments & Keyword Arguments

Arguments are values passed into functions.

Keyword arguments allow you to specify which parameter is being passed, like by=1.

12. Default Arguments

You can set default values for function parameters, which are used if the caller doesn’t provide a value.

13. Variable-length Arguments (Using *args)

Use *args to allow a function to accept an arbitrary number of arguments.

Example: def multiply(*numbers) lets you pass any number of numbers to multiply together.